What Is Higher Education?
The definition of higher education may vary depending upon the laws and culture of the country involved. 
In the United States, higher education is considered to be voluntary studies beyond the high school level. 
This article discusses some of the characteristics of higher education in the U.S.

Overview of Higher Education
When defining the term 'higher education,' it's important to relate the definition to the geographical location. In some parts of the world, mandatory attendance at school ends at a much younger age than in the West. 
Some countries consider schooling at the Western equivalent of high school to be voluntary and a luxury not available to most people.

In the U.S., 'higher education' refers to postsecondary education, which is offered at institutions such as colleges, universities, community colleges, and vocational-technical schools. 
No matter which type of postsecondary school you attend, there are several common characteristics of higher education. Below are a few examples.


Important Information About Higher Education
Higher Education is Voluntary
Higher education in the Western world is usually voluntary. 
For this reason, high school is not typically considered to be higher education because high school attendance is mandatory for students younger than 16 years of age in most jurisdictions within the United States.

Higher Education is Student-Driven
Higher education students in the U.S. usually study subjects of interest to them personally. 
They may be studying general college-level subjects or a trade school curriculum. 
For example, a student interested in becoming a doctor may enroll in a pre-med program at a 4-year institution, '
while a student who wants to work as an airplane mechanic may get training at a 2-year institution where he or she can focus more specifically on learning trade skills.

Higher Education Often Leads to a Degree or Certificate of Proficiency
Some definitions of higher education include a component that the study must be for the purpose of obtaining a college degree, certificate or other recognition of achievement. 
However, others define higher education as both voluntary and in pursuit of at least an associate's degree. 
Such definitions exclude programs that lead to an undergraduate certificate.