football, also called association or soccer,
 game in which two teams of 11 players these are made up of one goalkeeper and ten outfieid players, using any part of their bodies except their hands and arms, 
try to maneuver the ball into the opposing team’s goal. Only the goalkeeper is
 permitted to handle the ball and may do so only within the penalty area surrounding the goal. The team that scores more goals wins

Football is the world’s most popular ball game in numbers of participants and spectators.
 Simple in its principal rules and essential equipment, the sport can be played almost anywhere,
 from official football playing fields (pitches) to gymnasiums, streets, school playgrounds, parks,
 or beaches. Football’s governing body, the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA),

 estimated that at the turn of the 21st century there were approximately 250 million football players and over 
1.3 billion people “interested” in football; in 2010 a combined television audience of more than 26 billion
 watched football’s premier tournament, the quadrennial month-long World Cup finals
By the early 20th century, football had spread across Europe, but it was in need of international organization. 
A solution was found in 1904, when representatives from the football associations 
of Belgium, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland founded the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA).
Essentially the equipment that is needed for a soccer match is pitch and a football. 
Additionally players can be found wearing 
studded football boots, shin pads and matching strips. The goalkeepers will additionally wear
 padded gloves as they are the only players allowed to handle the ball. Each team will have a designated captain.
To win you have to score more goals than that of your opponents. If the scores are level after 
90 minutes then the game will end as a draw apart from in cup games where the game can go to extra time and even 
a penalty shootout to decide the winner. Players must use their feet to 
kick the ball and are prohibited to use their hands apart from goalkeepers
 who can use any part of their body within the 18 yard box (of which more can be found out in the next section).
 